Pkgdown, utils, and data availability article (#202)
nflverse/nflreadr: vignettes/articles/nflverse_data_schedule.Rmd

# 
# ONLY RUN IF WE NEED TO UPDATE THE LIST OF RELEASES!!!
# 
l <- piggyback::pb_list(repo = "nflverse/nflverse-data") 
data_releases <- l |>
  dplyr::filter(file_name %in% c("timestamp.json","")) |>
  dplyr::distinct(tag,file_name) |> 
  dplyr::mutate(
    url = glue::glue("https://github.com/nflverse/nflverse-data/releases/download/{tag}/timestamp.json"),
    badge = glue::glue("[![{tag}](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=blue&label={paste0('load_',tag)}&query=last_updated&style=flat-square&url={URLencode(url)})](https://github.com/nflverse/nflverse-data/releases/tag/{tag})")) |> 
  dplyr::select(
    Data = tag,
    `Last Updated` = badge
  ) |> 
  dplyr::bind_rows(
    list(Data = "pbp_raw", `Last Updated` = "[![raw pbp data](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nflverse/nflfastR-raw?label=Raw%20PBP%20Updated&style=flat-square)]()")
  )

nflversedata::nflverse_save(data_releases, "data_releases", "nflverse Data Releases", "misc", file_types = "rds")
```

```{r echo = FALSE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE}
update_times <- nflreadr::rds_from_url("https://github.com/nflverse/nflverse-data/releases/download/misc/data_releases.rds")

> status <- tibble::tribble(

Reviewer: I don't think this code will work without tibble installed which nflreadr doesn't have?

  "combine", "![combine](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nflverse/pfr_scrapR/update_combine.yaml?label=combine_status&style=flat-square)",
  "nfl4th", "![nfl4th](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nflverse/nfl4th/update_precompute.yaml?label=nfl4th_precompute&style=flat-square)",
  "ffverse player IDs", "![weekly-playerids](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/dynastyprocess/data/weekly-playerids.yml?label=ff_playerids&style=flat-square)",
  "ffverse rankings", "![weekly-fantasypros](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/dynastyprocess/data/weekly-fantasypros.yml?label=rankings&style=flat-square)",
  "contracts", "![contracts](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nflverse/rotc/update_otc.yaml?label=contracts&style=flat-square)"
  ) |> 
  dplyr::left_join(update_times, by = "Data") |> 
  dplyr::mutate_all(tidyr::replace_na,"") |> 
  dplyr::mutate(Status = glue::glue("[{Status}]()"))
```

```{r echo = FALSE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE}
knitr::kable(status)
```

## nflverse Play-by-Play Data

There are three ways to obtain nflverse pbp data. 

> 1. `nflfastR::build_nflfastR_pbp()` parses raw pbp and is usually available within 15 minutes after a game ended.
> 2. `nflfastR::update_db()` maintains a pbp database for the user. It runs 1.) to add new games and is therefore subject to the same update schedule.
> 3. `nflreadr::load_pbp()` or `nflfastR::load_pbp()` load the complete season of data, automatically computed with 1.). The dataset updates every night (in the range of 3 am - 5 am ET) during the season.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. We recommend using `nflreadr::load_pbp()` (and other nflreadr functions) as the primary method of retrieving data. This uses our automated data infrastructure to download clean data, and we update this on a nightly basis after each gameday during the season.  
2. If this is not quick enough, `nflfastR::build_nflfastR_pbp()` parses raw pbp json files we save, usually available within 15 minutes after a game has ended. 
3. If you have a SQL database, `nflfastR::update_db()` helps maintain a pbp database. It uses `nflfastR::build_nflfastR_pbp()` so can be run on the same schedule (i.e. within 15-30 minutes after a game has ended).  
```

---

> title: "nflverse Data Update and Availability Schedule"

Reviewer: Maybe we could/should include the badges from nflverse/nflverse-data’s readme as well as copy this write up there as well?

---

```{r, include = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  collapse = TRUE,
  comment = "#>"
)
```

`nflreadr` provides a wide range of NFL related data. This is powered by an extensive, automated data infrastructure. This article provides information on update and availability schedules, as this is a pressing question for many nflverse users, especially right before the start of a season. 

## nflverse Play-by-Play Data

There are three ways to obtain nflverse pbp data. 

> 1. `nflfastR::build_nflfastR_pbp()` parses raw pbp and is usually available within 15 minutes after a game ended.

Reviewer: I think I’d start in the order we’d want people to use them, eg load_pbp, then build_nflfastr_pbp(), then update_db() which is to me super niche

Author: I had it like this first, but both 3.) and 2.) refer to 1.) in order to explain how it works in the background

Reviewer: I can draft a revision in a bit, am still not awake yet haha
